Controlling EIP
Gaining control of the EIP register is a
crucial step
when exploiting memory
corruption vulnerabilities.
The EIP register is similar to
reins on a horse;
we can use it to control the direction
or flow of the application.
However, at this point we only know that
some unknown section
of our buffer of A’s overwrote EIP.
Before we can load a valid destination
address into the instruction pointer
and control the execution flow,
we need to know exactly which part
of our buffer is landing in EIP.
There are two common ways to
do this.
First, we could attempt binary
tree analysis.
Instead of 800 A’s, we send 400 A’s
and 400 B’s.
If EIP is overwritten by B’s, we know the
four bytes reside
in the second half of the buffer.
We then change the 400 B’s to 200 B’s
and 200 C’s, and send the buffer again.
If EIP is overwritten by C’s, we know that
the four bytes reside
in the 600–800 byte range.
We continue splitting the specific buffer
until we reach the exact four bytes
that overwrite EIP.
Mathematically, this should happen
in seven iterations.
However, there is a faster way to identify
the location of these four bytes.
We could use a sufficiently long string
that consists of non-repeating 4-byte
chunks as our fuzzing input.
Then, when the EIP is overwritten with
4 bytes from our string,
we can use their unique sequence to
pinpoint exactly where
in the entire input buffer they
are located.
While this may be slightly hard to
understand at first,
it becomes more clear when we apply
the technique.
We’ll use Metasploit’s pattern_create Ruby
script to help us with this approach.
The script can be run from any location in
Kali by running msf-pattern_create.
To create the string for our proof
of concept,
we’ll pass the -l parameter, which
defines the length of our required string.
The next step is to update our
Python script,
replacing the existing buffer of 800
A’s with this new unique string.
Our updated proof of concept
will now send
the unique 800-character string
instead of A’s.
Let’s run this new script.
This time, we notice that EIP
contains a new string.
The EIP register has been overwritten with
42 30 61 42,
the hexadecimal representation of the four
characters “B0aB”.
Knowing this, we can use the companion to
pattern_create, named pattern_offset,
to determine the offset of these specific
four bytes in our string.
Let’s restart sync breeze and re-attach
our debugger before we try it out.
In Kali, we can run the pattern_offset
script from any location
with msf-pattern_offset.
To find the offset where the EIP overwrite
happens,
we can use -l to specify the length of our
original string,
and -q to specify the bytes we found in
EIP.
The msf-pattern_offset script reports that
these four bytes are located at offset 780
of the 800-byte pattern.
Let’s translate this to a new modified
buffer string,
and see if we can get four B’s,
to land precisely in the EIP register.
This proof of concept creates a buffer
with 780 A’s
to reach the offset found by
pattern_offset.
It then uses 4 B’s to overwrite the EIP
register,
followed by 16 C’s to stick to our
original 800-byte buffer length.
Let’s run this latest proof of concept and
confirm our control of EIP.
This time, the web server crashes, the
resulting buffer is perfectly structured,
and EIP now contains our four B’s.
We now have complete control over EIP
and we should be able to effectively
control the execution flow of SyncBreeze!
However, we’ll need to replace our hex 42
placeholder
and redirect the application flow to a
valid address
that points to code we want to execute.